Feature/devoxx ma 2018 (#474)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2018-12-17-Devoxx-MA.md

---
layout: post
authors: [tom_van_den_bulck,maarten_casteels,yannick_de_turck]
title: 'Devoxx MA 2018'
image: /img/devoxx-ma-2018/devoxx-ma.png
tags: [Devoxx,Java,Agile,Conference]
category: Conference
comments: true
---

> [Devoxx MA](https://devoxx.ma/){:target="_blank"} is a yearly conference in Morocco.
> Previously it was held in Casablanca but for their 4th edition, xHub, 
> the organisation behind Devoxx MA, decided to hold it in Marrakesh, in the lovely Palm Plaza Hotel on the 27th, 28th and 29th of November 2018.

> > Apart from the conference, xHub also offered a speakers trip to the speakers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The organizers offered both a free conference ticket and a speakers trip to the speakers.
```

> Four colleagues of Ordina JWorks: Yannick De Turck, Tim Ysewyn, Tom Van den Bulck and Maarten Casteels attended both the conference and the speakers trip.

> > Three out of them were also featured as speaker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Three of them were also featured as speaker.
```

# Table of contents

* [The Speakers Dinner](#the-speakers-dinner)
* [VueJS Animation In Action by Charles-Philippe Bernard](#vuejs-animation-in-action-by-charles-philippe-bernard)
* [MockK, The Idiomatic Mocking Framework For Kotlin by Yannick De Turck](#mockk-the-idiomatic-mocking-framework-for-kotlin-by-yannick-de-turck)
* [Stream Processing Live Traffic Data with Kafka Streams by Tom Van den Bulck and Tim Ysewyn](#stream-processing-live-traffic-data-with-kafka-streams-by-tom-van-den-bulck-and-tim-ysewyn)
* [Applying (D)DDD and CQ(R)S to Cloud Architectures with Spring Boot and Docker by Benjamin Nothdurft](#applying-dddd-and-cqrs-to-cloud-architectures-with-spring-boot-and-docker-by-benjamin-nothdurft)
* [Resiliency for 140 PB Cluster by Meriam Lachkar](#resiliency-for-140-pb-cluster-by-meriam-lachkar)
* [La Keynote De La Nouvelle Generation by Saskia and Lois](#la-keynote-de-la-nouvelle-generation-by-saskia-and-lois)
* [The Speakers Trip in Essaouira](#the-speakers-trip-in-essaouira)

## The Speakers dinner
The evening before the conference started, we had the speakers dinner sponsored by [Lightbend](https://www.lightbend.com){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

> The dinner was at restaurant [Kasar El Hamra](http://www.restaurant-ksarelhamra.net){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} in the center of Marrakesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dinner was held at restaurant [Kasar El Hamra](http://www.restaurant-ksarelhamra.net){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} in the center of Marrakesh.
```

On our way to the center we got to experience the Moroccan traffic which seemed to be pretty chaotic with all the cars and motorcycles zipping around, evading each other on the streets.

> Once at the restaurant we got treated with one Moroccan dish after the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once arrived, we got treated with Moroccan dishes, one after the other.
```

> Each of them truly delicious. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of them truly was delicious. 
```

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/devoxx-ma-2018/speakers-dinner.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Speakers Dinner" width="60%" />

## VueJS animation in action by [Charles-Philippe Bernard](https://twitter.com/charlyouki){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Charles-Philippe Bernard" src="/img/devoxx-ma-2018/speaker-charles-philippe.png"></span>

Charles-Philippe explained why he loves [VueJS](https://vuejs.org){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} so much.

> He criticised Angular and React because of the companies behind the frameworks as well as the multiple variations of utilities and plugins. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He criticised Angular and React because of the companies behind the frameworks, as well as the multiple variations of utilities and plugins. 
```

> Instead, he prefers it when the community stands as one behind the framework. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, he prefers a community that stands as one behind the framework. 
```

Which is why he really likes VueJS as it is community-driven.
He explained that for each functionality, there is exactly one solution promoted by the community.

During his session, Charles-Philippe went over several libraries that he often uses for animated websites: 

- CSS3
- [Velocity.js](http://velocityjs.org){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
- [Animate.css](https://daneden.github.io/animate.css/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
- [anime.js](http://animejs.com){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
- [Vanilla-tilt.js](https://micku7zu.github.io/vanilla-tilt.js/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

> A handy trick that we learned during the session is how to make a JPG transparent using CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A convenient trick that we learned during the session is how to make a JPG transparent using CSS.
```

Note that this will only work if the image has a white background.

```(css)
img {
    mix-blend-mode: multiply;
}
```

Be sure to check out Charles-Philippe's amazingly animated [slides](https://wp1l5k0n7.codesandbox.io){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

## MockK, the idiomatic mocking framework for Kotlin by [Yannick De Turck](https://twitter.com/YannickDeTurck){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Yannick De Turck" src="/img/devoxx-ma-2018/speaker-yannick-de-turck.png"></span>

Our colleague, Yannick, gave a talk about MockK.
MockK is a mocking framework specifically made for Kotlin. 
As a Java developer, he is a huge fan of Mockito for using mocks in his unit tests.
When he picked up Kotlin, Mockito was also his first choice to try out.

> He explained however that using Mockito in a Kotlin project doesn't seem to go all that well due to how Mockito creates its mocks together with classes and functions being final in Kotlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
He explained however that using Mockito in a Kotlin project doesn't go all that well due to how Mockito creates its mocks, which is by overriding classes and methods.
And because Kotlin's classes and methods are final by default, you can see that this poses some challenges.
```

> Yannick shared his experiences and mentioned that even though there is an [incubating, opt-in feature](https://github.com/mockito/mockito/wiki/What%27s-new-in-Mockito-2#mock-the-unmockable-opt-in-mocking-of-final-classesmethods){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} to allow Mockito to mock classes and functions, the user experience wasn't all that nice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yannick shared his experiences and mentioned that even though there is an [incubating, opt-in feature](https://github.com/mockito/mockito/wiki/What%27s-new-in-Mockito-2#mock-the-unmockable-opt-in-mocking-of-final-classesmethods){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} to allow Mockito to mock final classes and methods, the user experience wasn't all that nice.
```

Author: In Kotlin they usually talk about functions instead of methods. They're also defined using the `fun` keyword. :)

He looked for other frameworks and stumbled upon [MockK](https://mockk.io){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}, a mocking framework specifically created for Kotlin by [Oleksiy Pylypenko](https://github.com/oleksiyp){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.
MockK’s main philosophy is offering first-class support for Kotlin features and being able to write idiomatic Kotlin code when using it.
He was pretty enthusiastic about MockK and went over all its features and its ease of use. 

> There is also a [blog post](/testing/2018/02/05/Writing-tests-in-Kotlin-with-MockK.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} written by Yannick specifically about his experiences with Mockito and MockK in Kotlin projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also a [blog post](/testing/2018/02/05/Writing-tests-in-Kotlin-with-MockK.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} written by Yannick about his experiences with Mockito and MockK in Kotlin projects.
```

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed" data-id="c67c9a2029ad4b0e9c0016b55bb68d10" data-ratio="1.77777777777778" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
<br/>

## Stream Processing Live Traffic Data with Kafka Streams by [Tom Van den Bulck](https://twitter.com/tomvdbulck){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} and [Tim Ysewyn](https://twitter.com/TYsewyn){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Tom van den Bulck" src="/img/devoxx-ma-2018/speaker-tom-van-den-bulck.png"></span>
<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Tim Ysewyn" src="/img/devoxx-ma-2018/speaker-tim-ysewyn.png"></span>

Our colleagues, Tim Ysewyn and Tom Van den Bulck, gave a talk about stream processing live traffic data with Kafka Streams.

> Tom did the theoretical part of the talk starting with the bigger picture. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tom presented the theoretical part of the talk starting with the bigger picture. 
```

He explained the stream processing concept which is basically computing data directly as it is produced or received.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/devoxx-ma-2018/01_data_at_rest_infrastructure.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Data at rest infrastructure" width="60%" />

In the image above we can see an example without stream processing.
In this case, the data is stored in databases and file storages.
Using a scheduler, applications can retrieve and process the stored data.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/devoxx-ma-2018/02_stream_processing_infrastructure.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Stream processing infrastructure" width="60%" />

> With stream processing the data will be processed directly as streams of events, recreating other event streams for other applications if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With stream processing the, data will be processed directly as streams of events, recreating other event streams for other applications if needed.
```

Reviewer: creating instead of recreating?

> The applications will react on an event instead of scheduling jobs to retrieve and process data stored in databases and file storages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The applications will react on events instead of scheduling jobs to retrieve and process data stored in databases and file storages.
```

Following up the theoretical part, it was time for the demo.
Key part of the demo was of course the data that was going to get processed.
The Flemish government offers XML documents with live traffic data.
These documents are created every minute so by using a scheduled job, an event could be created out of it.

The theory behind all of this can be a bit abstract if you are not familiar with the concept which is why Tim first did some live coding to demonstrate how the events can be handled properly.

Afterwards we learned how Spring can be used to help us with Kafka and how we can periodically fetch the data.

> We did this both using pure code and afterwards with the help of some handy annotations to do the same thing with less code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We did this by first using pure code and afterwards with the help of some convenient annotations to do the same thing with less code. 
```

At the end of the demo we created a small application that calculates the average speed for a specific sensor during a time frame of two minutes.

The slides are available on [SlideShare](https://www.slideshare.net/TimYsewyn/stream-processing-live-traffic-data-with-kafka-streams){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}. 
The demo code can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/Stream-Processing-with-Kafka-Streams/workshop){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

## Applying (D)DDD and CQ(R)S to Cloud Architectures with Spring Boot and Docker by [Benjamin Nothdurft](https://twitter.com/DataDuke){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}
<span class="image left"><img class="p-image" alt="Benjamin Nothdurft" src="/img/devoxx-ma-2018/speaker-benjamin-nothdurft.png"></span>

> Benjamin started off by giving a brief introduction on Domain-Driven Design explaining the different building stones such as domains, domain events, ubiquitous language and Event Storming.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benjamin started off by giving a brief introduction on Domain-Driven Design explaining the different building blocks such as domains, domain events, ubiquitous language and Event Storming.  
```

He also mentioned the famous two books: [Domain-Driven Design by Eric Evans](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/domain-driven-design-tackling/0321125215/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} and [Implementing Domain-Driven Design by Vaugn Vernon](https://www.amazon.com/Implementing-Domain-Driven-Design-Vaughn-Vernon/dp/0321834577){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.

> Benjamin went through all the different steps and parts of doing Event Storming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Benjamin went through all the different steps of Event Storming.
```

> The goal is to bring people of different silos together such as developers, analysts, architects and business experts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to bring people of different silos together, such as developers, analysts, architects and business experts.
```

Together you want to create a logically ordered sequence of events to document a system using an ubiquitous language i.e. everybody using the same vocabulary and terms.
Events describe things that have happened and are thus always in the past tense e.g. product added to cart.

> In a next step you want to identify commands, the triggers for events e.g. add product to cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a next step you want to identify commands, which are the triggers of events e.g. add product to cart.
```

The program consisted of an `Animal` interface and a `Cat` class that could meow.

Saskia and Loïs ended their keynote mentioning that they both want to become developers of the new generation.
Given their impressive presentation, we definitely see that happening!

## The Speakers Trip in Essaouira
After three interesting days of Devoxx MA, we went on the speakers trip to Essaouira, considered as one of the best anchorages of the Moroccan coast.
We started off by visiting [Chez Ali](http://restaurant-chez-ali.com/en/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} in Marrakesh on the last evening of the conference.
As we arrived we were heartily greeted by horsemen and Moroccans playing authentic music.
We got to explore Ali Baba's cave before passing by all kinds of folkloric groups.
Dinner was served in big tents and consisted of multiples courses of Moroccan dishes.
After the dinner we got to watch an amazing spectacle of stuntmen on horses, belly dancers and cavaliers.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/devoxx-ma-2018/chez-ali.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Chez Ali" width="60%" />

> The morning after we set off to Essaouira with three buses filled of speakers and people part of the Devoxx MA organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The morning after, we set off to Essaouira with three buses filled of speakers and people part of the Devoxx MA organisation.
```

> Along the three-hour long ride we stopped by the magnificent "goat tree" and Arganomade, where they manufactured organic argan oil all by hand and where we got to see the whole manufacturing process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the three-hour ride we stopped by the magnificent "goat tree" and Arganomade, where they manufactured organic argan oil all by hand and where we got to see the whole manufacturing process.
```

In the early afternoon we arrived at [Essaouira Lodge](https://www.essaouira-lodge.com/en){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} where we would be staying during the trip.
After checking in and unpacking our luggage, we set off to the Essaouira beach where we had delicious sea food at restaurant Fanatic.

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/devoxx-ma-2018/essaouira-lodge.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Essaouira Lodge" width="60%" />

With our hunger satisfied, we set off with our buses a bit further along the beach where we got to ride camels in caravans.
With our newly allocated trusty steeds, we rode around the coast with the sun setting off in the background.
After a 30-minute ride in the sand we arrived at a big tent where we would spend the rest of the evening.
As dinner was being prepared in many tajines, we were entertained by live Moroccan music and dancers with a big cozy bonfire blazing about.

> What an amazing and memorable day this was!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was a truly amazing and memorable day!
```

<img class="image fit" src="{{ '/img/devoxx-ma-2018/camel-ride.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Camel Ride" width="60%" />

The day after we went back to Essaouira beach and visited the fortress city with the walls still intact.
As we strolled through the alley streets we got to visit all kinds of shops and markets.
We had lunch on a roof terrace at [Il Mare](http://www.ilmaressaouira.com){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} with an amazing view on the sea.

> Some more exploring was done around the city before returning to our lodges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some more exploring was done around the city before we returned to our lodges.
```

> We spent the rest of the evening in our lodges where we invited all speakers in our lodge for a nice last evening together with a couple of Casablanca beers before returning the day after.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We spent the rest of the evening in our lodges where we invited all speakers in our lodge for a nice last evening together with a couple of Casablanca beers before we hit the bed for our last night.
```
